SUMMARY
Purpose-driven healthcare data scientist who partners closely with clinicians and managers to improve decision-making
through thoughtful analytics. Comfortable tackling routine, messy, and complex problems alike—finding scalable,
repeatable solutions that strengthen systems over time. I bring strong critical thinking, clear communication, and a
learning mindset to every engagement, using AI as a tool rather than a substitute for judgment.
EXPERIENCE
Senior Implementation Analyst
Hive Networks, Inc.
Sep '23 — Present
Louisville
•LLM Fine-Tuning & Evaluation (Healthcare Analytics): Fine Tuned a LLM on laboratory data, and evaluated against
baseline LLM, allowing for open discussion on tradeoffs.
•Created an automated process using Cursor AI to interpret complex SQL code and craft operational definitions and
examples for over 100 Key Performance Indicators.
This allows our AI Chat Bot to answer customer questions within the context of the metric.
•Innovative Problem Solving in Analytics: Developed and implemented one robust database design to store customer-
specific population management data; easy to maintain but flexible enough so each customer can define their own
population management metrics.
Used by all of our customers.
•Collaborative Leadership in Technical Projects: Led end-to-end database releases, including overall coordination ,
regression testing, and troubleshooting critical issues for high-profile deliverables.
•Data-Driven Insights and Quality Improvements: Analyzed and resolved complex bugs, conducted deep dives into
data quality issues, and implemented solutions that improved reporting accuracy.
•Delivered insightful visualizations to support decision-making and client communication.
Pricipal and Owner
ClearAsData, LLC
Jan '23 — Present
•Work with non-profit mission driven companies to help them understand their data and make better business decisions.
Louisville
Contract for data science services at Midmark Corporation.
Data Scientist
Midmark Corporation
Aug '22
Versailles, United States
•Data Engineering: gathering, flattening, cleaning data lake telemetry data into organized tables enabling machine
learning.
•Helped automate process to convert firmware dhall file to digital twin definition language to assess whether
incoming telemetry data complies with design specifications.
•Profiled incoming telemetry data in real time to detect issues and anomalies.
Data Analyst
Genetesis
May '22
Cincinnati
•Applied statistical methods evaluating variables from two leading magentocardiography publications to determine if
publication results were repeatable using Genetesis clinical study data•Created methodology for assessing significant
magnetocardiography variables to determine healthy and unhealthy ranges.
•Evaluated certain patient physical characteristics and impact on prediction model accuracy.
•Automated calculation of Sensitivity, Specificity, Accuracy and Confidence Intervals for clinical study results.
Data Scientist
TriHealth
Apr '19
Cincinnati
•Provided significance tests for cardiac surgery department (a) to determine volumes did not support reduction of
staff (b) comparing operational efficiencies leading to shared learning between departments.
•Architected, programmed & delivered seminal work-flow to calculate utilization of anesthesiologists site wide.
•Provided data & dashboard to influence decision to use median procedure time vs "one size fits all" for high volume
procedures in cardiac surgery department.
•Created views, stored procedures and tables underpinning nurse scheduling optimization project; architected process
needed to ETL historical data and do daily refreshes of the data.
•Prototyped optimization of nurse shift preferences with daily demand,
Lead Business Intelligence Developer
TriHealth
Nov '15
Cincinnati

Architected data strategy for Women’s Services department to improve quality of data input and for transparency of
KPI measures: pushed personalized KPI reports to each provider enabling continued improvement, contributing to
highest Leapfrog rating in 2018 for the first time.-Found statistical difference in breastfeeding rates based on delivery
method, providing focus for improvement work. Quantified reduction of opioid morphine milligram equivalents
(MME) for our inpatient Obstetrics population and provided results for each provider. The calculation of MME’s was
landmark and provided a standard basis of comparing opioid levels.
SKILLS
Top Skills Critical Thinking, Python, AI-generated content, Problem Solving, Analysis
Languages Chinese/Mandarin Han Yu Shui Ping Kao Shi Certified Level 2
EDUCATION
Master of Science - MS, Business Analytics in Business Analytics, University of Cincinnati (GPA:
3.97/4.0) Sep '19 — Apr '22
BS, Chemical Engineering in Chemical Engineering, Clarkson University 1981 — 1985
CERTIFICATIONS
Epic Clinical Reporting - Stork
Chinese Mandarin, Level 2 Proficiency (Han Yu Shui Ping HSK)
PUBLICATIONS
Abstract: Population Health Management for Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis in the Pediatric Rheumatology
Care and Outcomes Improvement Network (contributor)
American College of Rheumatology · Sep 2, 2024
Sep '24
Reducing Outpatient Opiate Utilization in the Postpartum Period
Obstetrics & Gynecology May '20
Labor Progression Slower Than the Zhang Standards Is Associated With Worse Maternal and Fetal
Outcomes
Labor Progression Slower Than the Zhang Standards Is Associated With Worse Maternal and Fetal Outcomes
May '19